# joplin-arm64-darwin-guide
Instructions to build Joplin on M1 Apple Silicon.
# This is a mirror of the post found on my website at https://noahnash.net/blog/joplin-apple-silicon
> <strong>Note:</strong> I only update this github repo periodically, my website will contain the most up to date guide.

> Keep in mind this has only been tested with a M1 Mac running Monterey. In order to compile successfully it is *required* be running the same CPU architecture.

## 1) Install Homebrew and dependencies



### Homebrew

`/bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/install.sh)"`

### Joplin Dependencies

```
brew install cocoapods
brew install python
brew install vips
xcode-select install
```

### Ensure node / npm / yarn is up to date

`node -v`, `npm -v`, `yarn -v`

As of writing, I successfully compiled with these versions:

Node: v16.13.1

Npm: 9.2.0

Yarn: 3.1.1

## 2) Prepare Files

### Clone Joplin repo

```
git clone https://github.com/laurent22/joplin.git 
cd joplin
```

### Change target architecture 

In addition, you will have to change the build flag's target arch from x64 to arm64 in app-desktop/package.json. See: [this PR for what to change](https://github.com/laurent22/joplin/pull/5537)

### Install npm packages

```
npm install sharp
# For some reason npm will throw errors if keytar not built beforehand
npm install Keytar —build-from-source 
# npm install -g @dennisameling/keytar-temp@7.4.99 ## Alt keytar if above does not work
# npm install sqlite3@4.1.0 —build-from-source ## Might not be necessary, run if build fails in step 3
```

### Set npm config flags

```
# Enable codepack for Node/Yarn
corepack enable
export npm_config_arch=arm64
export npm_target_arch=arm64
export sdkroot=macosx
# sqlite3 errors if not set beforehand
npm config set python python3
```

## 3) Running Joplin

### Build Joplin

```
yarn install
cd packages/app-desktop
yarn start 
# if it runs successfully, time to package
yarn run dist --publish=never --mac --arm64
```

### Delete old install

There will be conflicts if you don't delete the old x64 install of Joplin. 

In order to uninstall it, move the previous joplin.app to the trash. Then delete the data folder.

```
# Delete Joplin data folder: make sure you backup everything you need beforehand
rm -r ~/.config/joplin-desktop
```

### Install new dmg

A .dmg file should be in `joplin/packages/app-desktop/dist` as generated by `yarn run dist` command. Extract it and run it as you would the normal x64 binary.

Open activity monitor to verify that it is using the right CPU architecture. If all goes well, you should see Joplin’s CPU type being “Apple” instead of “Intel”.

### Updating Joplin
When the Joplin app notifies you of an update, you will have to repeat the above process. Run `git pull origin` to fetch the latest changes, then rebuild using yarn.

## Conclusion

Having used this for a few months, I have yet run into any problems so far, but keep in mind that no guarantees are given. Since this is not actively supported by the official project, don’t pester Joplin’s maintainers with any errors encountered in the process. If you do notice anything wrong, feel free to create an issue on this repo, and I can try and help.

> Note: due to Apple’s strict notarization and code-signing, shared prebuilt binaries will fail to boot unless you compile them yourself.

> For reference I will provide my [unsigned binary](https://github.com/noah-nash/joplin-arm64-darwin-guide/releases) on this repo for troubleshooting reasons, but don't expect it to work out of the box.

## Troubleshooting
- Make sure your NodeJS arch is arm64: `node -p "process.arch"`.
- Be sure to read through npm error logs from start to finish.
- Macs sometimes have a bug that cause it to throw enotempty errors. A *possible* fix is running: `ulimit -Sn 4096`.
- Between failed attempts: Try deleting **all** node_modules folders. `rm -rf node_modules`, and then run `npm i --package-lock-only` to update packages.
- Run `npm audit fix`,  `npm run clean`, and other commands listed in the [Joplin troubleshooting repo.](https://github.com/laurent22/joplin/blob/dev/readme/build_troubleshooting.md)

If that fails, feel free to [contact me](https://noahnash.net/about#contact) if you need any help, and I'll try to respond as soon as possible.


